Shiny app walkthrough
So we had basically two different applications. Again, we had one that was for
them to be able to upload their information that was due at 2 p.m every Wednesday. It was basically
like hospitals, local health departments, long-term care facilities, higher ed, pre-k through 12. So
they've created these different customer entities, if you will. They have a template, an Excel
template. We pulled out a whole bunch of stuff that they used to have to fill out because we
could automate it for them. So we really pared that down to just get the essential information
that we needed from them and created this interface for them to be able to upload their file.
Then we save it on the backend and name it. And then we create a whole bunch of new variables
with the data that they upload. At the time, the only restrictions we really checked for were
making sure that fields that were required actually had information in them. Some of them
had to be structured a certain way, things like that. But we didn't necessarily have anything
else that we were checking for. What we built in later on and where the process now starts is when
the group at the GIATF, which is the Joint Interagency Task Force, that's the group of
groups, if you will, within our state that's overseeing all of this, when they find out what
the supply is going to be coming in in the next week from the CDC, they can go into this tab and
they can allocate a certain number. They do it all in vials, but a certain number of vials
for each entity. So for hospitals, they're only allowed a maximum of 100 Moderna vials. They'll
put that in here. Pfizer and J&J, they're doing it for all three brands right now of vaccine.
And so now when they go in to upload their information, we're checking against that.
If they upload it as a draft, it won't prevent them from uploading, but it will give them a
message, like a caution message to say, you're over your max allocation, so you need to fix this
before uploading your final version. And then they can go in and select final and upload their
final version. And then that's really what's used then to create the final distribution report for
the week. So this is kind of a checks and balances system to make sure that they're not having to go
back to these people afterward and say, you've asked for too much or to break any hearts later
on to say, you asked for too much. We're only giving you this amount. Like it's very transparent
this way. They know how much they're allowed to request for the week. So once that's done again
by 2 PM on Wednesdays, we go back over here. This is our vaccine demand management application,
and this is where the bulk of work does happen. They have another tab where they're then able to
go and download the final distribution report. And I should say final loosely. So it's the
distribution report that's generated based on what was uploaded by the customer entity groups. Then
we also have an overall vaccine request. You can see over here too, this is a good check for them.
They're all working together in a large armory. So technically all of these different people that
are using the system, at least the two we've talked about so far, on Wednesday afternoons,
they're all in the same room, but it could be a little walk to go get to them. So this just makes
it easier. They don't have to get up and go ask the person, hey, have you uploaded your information?
It's all right here. And they can see which groups have already uploaded, which haven't.
They can create the reports and download those. So from here, we have a request summary that will
summarize the total number of vials that need to go to each distribution hub. We have our upload
status of when the different entities last uploaded. And then this just aggregates all
of the information that came from the different requesters, the different customers. So it just
compiles all the different CSV files into one. And then here we have the distribution report. So this
we're generating a tab for every hub to work from. And then this sixth tab, I'm not going to
go into that today, but it's similar information about ancillary kit inventory. So not only are
they tracking the vaccine inventory at the different hub locations, we also have to make
sure that we have syringes and needles and alcohol pads and gloves and all of that fun stuff to go
with the vials of vaccine to be administered. We automated all of this. We have some business
rules where we're assigning the day of pickup and the time of pickup for the different groups.
Again, this is mock data that we use. So everybody is requesting one vial of vaccine, but it has
county information. It would have a point of contact name and phone number. If they're late
to their pickup, but didn't communicate anything to the distribution hub, they can easily get a
hold of the person. From here, there is still a manual process involved and we can't get rid of
all of them, but our contacts at the National Guard, they'll go in and they will look at what
was requested. And as long as there are no concerns about supply, as long as demand is
met by the supply, they'll go ahead and confirm that that is in fact what they're going to be
allotted for that following week. So they can go in here if they need to and make adjustments
in the allotted vials and allotted doses section if they need to. And we also create a column for
delivered doses, delivered vials, but really everything, all the inputs we have them do are
in vials and then we take care of the math on the back end to say how many doses are in each vial
and we take care of that. Once they have all of that finalized for the week, they can, there's a
separate app where only like two people have access to upload the final version of the distribution
report. Again, centrally, they can add new work orders if they need to. If a special request comes
in, they're like, okay, yeah, we have extra supply on hand, we can accommodate that. They have a
tab where they can input that information and it automatically updates the distribution report.
They can also do change of orders. So if somebody needs additional vials, they can just add it to
a certain work order instead of creating a whole new one for that same customer. So we gave them
those features to be able to do that. And while they're making their changes on this end, we also
allow the hubs, they're able to go into their own application where they're tracking pickups.
So on this first tab, they'll enter the work order number, they can look it up to make sure they
actually input it correctly, and the total number of vials that were picked up that day.
Then they also can change pickup times or pick up days of the week if they need to. Again, this is
just a way for management to know if something wasn't picked up, why? It's because they changed
their pickup time, that's fine. And then download distro report. They can download an up-to-date
version if they want to, but also in this data table view, they can just scroll through or search
for anything in their particular hub. So at any point in time, the hubs are able to download the
most up-to-date version of the distribution report, as well as management in their vaccine
demand management application. All of it is as real time as we could make it. And again, we're
working with people who are used to working in Excel anyway, so we wanted to make sure to keep
that sort of feature intact for them.